---
layout: post
title:  "No title"
author: "Clifton Porter"
date:   2017-05-05 12:14:01 -0400
category: "Spring 2017"
---

Why does racism exist?

Why is it someone can make a judgment about me by how I look

but not who I am?

How is it that I appear more frightening than the average bear?

I mean one glance and you can’t see if I have a criminal record or if I’ve been suspended from school.

So the problem isn’t my character: it’s my black skin, my big lips and my nappy hair.

it wasn’t seen as beautiful to your ancestors and that mindset has been passed down from your plantation owning, black women raping, black home wrecking, white hood wearing great great great granddaddy, almost as much as my bronze skin was inherited from ancient kings.

These chains on our thoughts and perceptions keep us all chained down, though we have wings.

So why do we cling?

Why do we assume we know a person well enough to fear them based on a picture or a glance?

Because we refuse to see with our eyes as God gave them to us.

We see through a lens over our minds that makes us perceive people who look different than us as nightmarish!

It’s because when we look we don’t use our eyes. If we did we’d see people.

Today we look with our minds and our memories. We see a person and remember that story of the gang banger or thief on TV, and how
he looked like me.

as opposed to seeing a person with eyes, legs, arms, ears, and a heart and saying, “Wow. He looks just like me.”

The problem is I have to do something extra to prove my humanity.

a white man who writes a poem and is a poet.

a black man who writes poem is a gangster rapper.

A black man who kills is a gang member or thug

a white man who belongs to the gang run by Uncle Sam and attacks all that is not Red White and Blue, is just mentally ill.

A black man in poverty is there because he chose to be.

A white man is just down on his luck.

Blame your ancestors for why this mindset was created, but look no further than the mirror as to why it still exists.

Look no further than a selfie for why hatred still persists.

You question why your white son has no black friends when his perception of who is worthy of his friendship was influenced by you
clutching your handbag tightly when a young black kid his age walked past.

I’m not saying don’t take precaution,

I’m saying don’t have irrational fear.

I’m not saying don’t be afraid,

I’m saying don’t paint my whole race with your broad brush,

then call me a racist when I get pissed at white mothers looking at me like i don’t belong in my own neighborhood.

Because in reality, the only difference between your perception of a neighborhood and 'the hood’ is the color of the people
living in it.

So why does racism still exist?

Because you allow it to, and because you breed it into your children.
